## Task_03: Answer Question-Answer pairs Task
At this phase, we have collected academic citations, individual passages, probable question outputs, probable answer outputs for questions, subject classification data, and concept/key-term classification data. Now for users of the Quizzer platform the primary behavioral task will be to answer these questions and record the result. Unlike the subject/concept classification task, the answer here will be a binary Yes or No. However to indicate some level of confidence we will include 6 possible answers. Yes(sure), Yes(not sure), No(sure), No(not sure), did not read question properly before answering, and a final answer to indicate that the user is not ready for this material yet, or has no interest in learning it.

The first four answers should be the most common, either you know you answered it correctly or not, but you might feel a bit hazy on whether you were sure of yourself. For this reason, a sure and not sure option will be provided. However there are cases where you might prematurely answer the question with great confidence only to realize you did not properly read the question, in this case you were neither right or wrong, you answered a question that was not presented. So a middle option for this case will be presented. Two other possible conditions exist. The user is not ready to learn this material as it is out of order and the user understands they do not have the pre-requisite knowledge to properly understand the material provided. An option should be provided for this scenario. Finally it is possible that the question-answer pair just has no value or interest to the user, in which case an option to should be provided to indicate this sheer lack of interest. Given the complexity of possible states. We will have 7 possible answers. In the UI interface of the task 5 buttons will be presented. Two of the left will be Yes(sure), Yes(unsure), A middle ? button, No(unsure), No(sure). Pressing the question mark button will provide a prompt to input one of three edge cases, you did not read the question properly and thus gave a wrong answer, you do not care to see this question-answer pair, or you are not ready to learn this material yet.

All possible states will be recorded, for the lifecycle of Quizzer, providing a do not care response will remove that question from your active pool of questions, providing a is not ready response will place the question into the reserve bank with a lock preventing it from entering circulation for at least n days. n will have to be determined later.

Other data to be recorded during this task
- qst_ans_reference:    record the reference to which qestion-answer pair was attempted
- response time:        How long did it take from the time the question was presented for the user to select to view the answer
- response result:      The result given in the above description
- user_uuid:            the uuid given to the user of the platform
- attempt_number:       the nth attempt given by the user to the specific question-answer pair (this can be derived by sorting attempting by timestamp then counting, select time_stamp from table where qst_ans_reference = qst_reference)
- knowledge-base:       The current state of the user's knowledge (simple way to derive this is to get a summation of every subject and concept by number of times mentioned in this table for this user)

Using this response data, along with the context of the question-answered and the tracked state of the user's current knowledge at time of answer, we will feed this data into a model that will get the probability the user will be right or wrong in answering a given question given the present_context. When a user provides an answer to a question, the current state of the program will be recorded as an attempt and that record will be fed into the existing model, the model will then calculate "At what time (t) will the user's probability of being correct (p) be n%? For the sake of maximizing length of time between questions and avoiding scenarios where a question was given for review too late, n will be set at 99% probability. This means that approximately every 1 in 100 questions will not be able to be answered correctly. Machine learning techniques will be used to process the entire table of results in order to train and derive the mathematical model for this program. It should be revisited at exactly what the optimal percentage target should be.

A question does remain, do we need to actively record the entire state of the user's progress at the time of answer, or can we write an algorithm that derives the current state of the user's knowledge base at the time of answer. As I understand it, if all data and records have exact time stamps any subsequent statistics can be derived. For example if we want to get the total amount of times the user has seen concept x, we'd first get every question-answer attempt for that user, filtering out other user data. We then for every attempt get whether or not it correlates with concept x. Total those up for every record thats before or at the time_stamp we are working with. Which we can pre-filter out of the data. Filter out all attempts after the specified timestamp. Once the algorithm is developed to join all this data into a record. The record can be fed into the ML model we are training. Thus it stands to reason we do not need to duplicate any data so long as any time anything is done an exact time_stamp is recorded.

Since we know that response time and confidence are tightly correlated and causal, we can use answer_times as a measure of confidence as well. However confidence and accuracy are not causal and thus can't be relied upon as an indicator of whether or not the user will be correct or incorrect

 It should be heavily noted however that we need to understand the relationship between confidence and ability to retain information. It may be that low confidence rankings lead to forgetting sooner than higher confidence ratings. By accurately recording reaction times and confidence metrics we should be able to divulge the relationship between how confident a person is in their answer and how long they can retain that information. I would hypothesize that higher confidence scores lead to more long term remembrance of information.

**Date Structure in sections:**
[[08_01_03_Question_Answer_Attempts_Table]]
