# Validation Functions
## User Authentication Functions
Used when the user clicks the "submit" button on the login page. User Authentication will go through Google Firebase Authentication. Assuming the user does have an internet connection, the user's password and email will be validated using their validation method. This method is completely hidden from the Quizzer Platform and is deemed to be secure at this time. If the user is not online, we will not check password, and only check the email address provided. Inside the user_profile record there will be a field indicating last_login, and whether or not that attempt was successful. If the last login was within 14 days, and the email address and device are the same, then the user may log in without a password. For offline authentication to work we need to track the individual device being used, ensure the last login attempt was successful meaning that the user has gone through Firebase Authentication at least once on their device. For mobile and ios, biometric login will be enabled allowing secure local logins to prevent unwanted access should an outside party gain access to a user's device. However it does not seem a usual occurrence that devices are shared to become a core issue to resolve.

## Social Media Login Authentication
Currently not implemented and not intended to be implemented at this time. However the plan is to find and access the services for various popular social logins, most notably "Sign in with Google" and connect those together for easier login access. The goal would be to reduce friction at the login page