# Motivations
The beginnings of this work started with my own frustrations as an adult student, 10 years out of high school. Over this time I had forgotten much if not all of what I learned during my high school years, I had listened to and read hundreds of books just a few years prior to my start of university. Much of what I've read has also left my memory. I spent my first semester mastering the material for all of my classes, and while I did extremely well in my coursework, coming into the second semester I found that I had forgotten nearly everything I worked so hard to retain. I'm majoring in computer scientist, I solve problems, and I came to university to learn and learn how to solve problems better, to reason, to think critically. So here we have a problem that is known to us all: Forgetting. So in my limited understanding I began by watching numerous YouTube videos attempting to learn a better method. I eventually found one talking about the forgetting curve and a brief mention of a guy named Hermann Ebbinghaus, a German psychologist who laid the foundation for experimental studies in memory. 

Hermann Ebbinghaus modeled how we forget over time, and with the study being confirmed in 2015, I knew I had something reputable to work with. It established that we have a half-life to our memory, and every time we review that knowledge the half-life to our memory grows longer. Using the basics of Python programming I developed an initial first draft of a program that allowed me to enter my class material in the form of question-answer pairs. Using the mathematical forumal that Ebbinghaus discovered, I created a revision schedule for each question so that the information is presented to me for review when I am on the cusp of forgetting that information. In this manner I created an automaton that does the hard work of implementation, allowing me simply to use the tool as designed. With this I discovered that I too can build software that enables us to learn faster and more effectively.
