Nothing is more frustrating than opening an application you wish to use only to realize it will never get past the loading screen. The application in our scenario has been written fast relying heavily upon third party tools, and for that reason is completely dependent upon these services as well as the internet. Without an internet connection the application will not work, period. This is not because the developers wish there to be a hurdle for their user's but instead that it is more difficult to build an application that runs just fine offline while also working with multiple user's on the platform. It is true that writing a single player game or application is easy enough, however the issue comes when you need to sync data with other users, when integrating paid features those payments must be verified through a payment provider, and when new user's create accounts it is much more secure to use an authentication service that is online. While these issues do exist and the easier option is to just give in the pressure and use online based services to abstract away backend functionality, it is our commitment with Quizzer to produce a product that works in its entirety offline, while also connecting online with other users.

This decision stems from a deliberate stance against dependency on third-party services and cloud architecture to avoid the "predatory pricing" that often accompanies SaaS conveniences. Such services tend to lure a person or organization in with free tier pricing, then once the platform has a sufficient amount of user traffic the prices go up drastically.