# Flexible UI Layout
Quizzer is designed to have a flexible UI that adjusts to the device it is ran upon. Certain tasks are only truly suited for desktop environments where more screen real estate is necessary. Tasks that will likely be desktop exclusive will be the source material entry, and question-answer generation. Since these tasks are more difficult to perform on mobile phones and tablets without the aid of a keyboard. However it may be a good design choice to include the option to perform these tasks on mobile devices, even if they are not ideal. For mobile phones such tasks would have a disclaimer that they are better suited to be completed on Desktop versions of the application.
# Page - Function Flow
Wireframes of the layout are planned using Obsidian's excalidraw community plugin, the option used is to make the wire framed designs look basic and very rough. These are not the final artistic renditions but rather the general design and layout of the UI elements. If you wish to view the full wireframe, you'll need to download obsidian, download this repo locally, then using obsidian create a new vault with this repo as the folder directory. Once you've done that you should go to settings, community plugins and search for excalidraw, install excalidraw, then ensure you enable the plugin for this vault. Otherwise individual images are in this document.

This section will also detail what functionality is to be executed, further details of those functions and what they do will be in the next section 04_03_Functions.
# Initial Startup
When Quizzer is loaded using the executable the database should initialize. A background process should start that syncs the question-answer pair table with the one stored centrally. In addition any attempt records for various tasks that are not necessary for execution of behavioral tasks (described in 03_02_breakdown_of_behavioral_tasks), should be synced with the central database, once it's been confirmed that records were properly uploaded, those records will get removed from the local instance of the application. Leaving behind only what is necessary for regular operation