Good file structure is the basis of clean code, that is understandable to navigate and provides the ability to quickly determine the location of the codebase in which updates to that codebase should be made in order to have the desired effect. For this reason we lay out exactly how the file structure should look, and what the upward bound to the length of any given file should be. There are many aspects to Quizzer's code base and so the following layout is the acceptable structure for naming and storing individual code files. Code will be primarily written in Dart on the frontend, and thus will end in the extension .dart, on the backend the codebase will primarily be written in python, and thus will end in the extension of .py. File extensions should be named according to the programming language that it contains. While this may be obvious, we state the obvious regardless to ensure no confusion exists.

The naming of files should be in snake_case. When naming a file abbreviations or short hand language should be used. For example when naming the file that contains the code for the page that allows entry of questions, not the one that allows full question-answer pairs. The name for that file would be more appropriately named, add_question_based_on_source_material.dart. There are no prizes for being concise with file names, ensure that all names for files are extremely clear and contain appropriate context. Doing this allows others as well as yourself to be able to quickly identify what the content matter of each file is.

We detail the general outline of Quizzer's file structure as follows:
quizzer/
- .dart_tool/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
	- dartpad/
	- extension_discovery/
	- flutter_build/
	- sqflite_common_ffi/databases/
		- quizzer.db
		- quizzer.sqbpro
- .idea/ %% This file is not used %%
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- android/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- build/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- ios/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- linux/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- macos/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- test/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- web/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- windows/
	- **Autogenerated and used by Flutter (Do not make edits here)**
- images/
	- quizzer_assets/
		- Contains all images and media assets for use by the platform and within the UI. This includes the quizzer logo
	- question_answer_pair_assets/
		- Contains all images that are referenced by question answer pairs
- lib/
	- This is the primary directory for all system files
	- backend/
		- functions/
	- database/
		- tables/
			- user_profile_table.dart
			- 
	- ui_pages/
		- login_page.dart
		- new_user_page.dart
	- main.dart


## Lib Directory
There will be three primary directories we use under the lib/ directory. The lib directory is the default directory name for a flutter project. We use backend/ dir, database/ dir, and ui_pages/ dir. 
### Backend Directory
Under the backend directory will hold any and all program logic. If that function involves redirects they will go in the page for that file. Otherwise core algorithms and features will be separated from the pages themselves. 
#### Functions and Algorithms Directory
This directory will hold individual files each containing code for specific features. For example the algorithm that determines which question should be served to a user next, after a question is answered, will be held in it's own file. While the algorithm that calculated when that question should be reviewed next would also get it's own algorithm. Individual groups of functions that handle certain features are to be isolated in appropriately named files.

The features stored in this directory are meant to be called routinely by the pages in the ui_pages/ directory. 
#### Background processes directory
This directory will hold individual files that detail various background process that are necessary for Quizzer to operate. These are held as distinctive from regular functions and algorithms that are called from the UI. That is these processes start at initialization and never terminate until the program itself terminates. An example of a background process that would be contained here, would the data sync process which involves syncing the local database with the central server.

### Database Directory
In this directory will be held simple functionality for initializing the database. Which includes the master database object that contains all the get and set functions so that the UI can properly communicate with the database in a safe manner.
#### Tables Directory
In the tables directory will be individual files that detail the functionality of each individual table. Every table in the database will get it's own file and object. While this could be accomplished with one large master object, the length of that proposal would make it too difficult to quickly navigate it so that changes can be made when necessary.
### UI Pages Directory
This directory, has no sub-directories. Within the UI Pages directory will be individual files with each file detailing the code for only the page specified in the name of the file. This allows us to quickly navigate to a specific page where an issue would be occurring and supports our granular approach.
