# Memory Competition
Short Question:
What constitutes a competing object in working memory?
Long Question:
Studies have showed that competition in working memory has led to poorer subsequent memory of those things. But what exactly is competition and how do we quantify what is and isn't competition?

The significance of answering this would enable quizzer to present questions in such an order, that no competition ever occurs in the user's working memory. Allowing for better subsequent memory of information presenting. Doing so would allow us to increase the value of our constant k in the memory model formula being developed. Further it would seem to suggest that noise/competition is a key factor in calculating the value of k in the model's formula.

# Data Structure
Short Question:
What is the best way to categorize question_answer_objects?
Long Question:
Each object in the database hold a prompt and an answer, but the information inside can be categorized and linked to one another through concepts, subject matter, or some other currently unknown factors. Creating a graph node network of these objects and placing them together, would allow us to "walk" through the knowledge in an orderly yet still non-linear manner. What is the best way to categorize these "units of knowledge" to create a coherent map.
## Proposal
Use consensus, have a mindmap exercise, where a multitude of users then complete a set of mindmaps using certain concepts as the starting node, and have them begin to list of everything that comes to mind when they think of that concept. Then repeat the process for all the new nodes they produce. Until either a time limit is hit or the user is too exhausted to continue. With a large batch of mapped concepts, we can merge these together to create a map that is essentially collective consensus. Not all maps would link to each other, but given enough of these blocks of data, a very large universal map of ideas can be generated.
Philosophically speaking, concepts are abstract, they are not real, they are tied solely to our language, so any attempt to tie a word to concrete unit of knowledge falls flat. We collectively decide what a word means, and the words change over time. So the idea would be to encourage users to actively complete mind-maps over time. New mind-maps would then go to update the larger map, over time the broader graphical-node-tree of knowledge would evolve and adapt to the user-base

## Important Consideration
If the graph's nodes are generated by consensus and not by emperical measure, it would hypothetically eliminate any connections that are too overloaded. For example the concept of "Math" can evoke a vast ocean of ideas. While a singular concept under that subject header might evoke just a few. So we could easily then pinpoint concepts that have too many "tags" and eliminate them from the graph, or at the very least reduce them to a subject-matter label rather than an abstract concept on the node-tree.

## Blocking Behavior
- How can we measure whether a question object is going to block retention of another?
- How would that algorithm work?
- I would suspect every object could be given an association strength with other objects, but instead of association strength we'd measure whether these two objects are conflicting or not.
- We would then be able to determine when adding new questions what objects to avoid. For example if q-a and q-b are blocking and q-a has just been introduced, then q-b should be introduced until the user has learned q-a.
- Phenomenon is that user can learn both q-a and q-b, but if q-a and q-b are introduced together, only one gets pushed into long term memory. I've noticed this especially with questions revolving around the birth and death years of individuals. These almost always block each other from my personal observations.